Optimized Agent memory
This is great - the VVAULT agent gave us a solid breakdown. The capsule schema has a lot of what we need, and the gap analysis is honest about where conversion work is required.

Here's my take on what to build on the VXRunner side:

What maps cleanly:

Identity metadata (aliases, platforms, origin type) - direct reshape from capsule metadata + tether data
Known derivatives - available from additional_data.tether.constructs
Tonal features - partial from emotional baseline + communication_style, needs ratio mapping
What needs extraction work:

Lexical features (word frequency, bigrams, vocab richness) - capsules store raw memory logs as text strings, so we can run our existing feature extraction on those
Structural features (message length, ellipsis/emoji ratios) - same approach, extract from memory text
Signature phrases - capsule has Nova tone pattern extraction, needs reformatting
The plan: Build a capsule loader module on VXRunner that can ingest a .capsule file (JSON), extract/convert features using VXRunner's existing fingerprinting engine from detect_construct_signal.py, and output a baseline that slots right into the baselines/ directory. Meanwhile, tell the VVAULT agent to go ahead and build that /api/capsules/<name>/vxrunner-baseline endpoint too - so you have both options: local file loading AND API-based loading.

On your side, tell the VVAULT agent: "Yes, build the conversion endpoint. Also generate at least one capsule (NOVA-001) using CapsuleForge so we have real data to test with."

Here's what I'll build on VXRunner's side:

Created task list
Start building
Let me start by understanding the existing detection system so I can build the capsule loader to integrate properly with it.

Now I have the full picture. Let me update the task list and start building.

Now I'll build all the capsule integration components. Tasks 1-3 are really all part of the same module, so I'll build them together.

Now let me mark tasks 1-3 as done (they're all in capsule_loader.py), create the capsules directory, integrate into brain.py, and update replit.md:

Now let me integrate the capsule loader into brain.py and create the capsules directory:

Now update the brain.py startup message for capsule loading, and also add capsule status to the console output:

Now update replit.md and test by restarting the workflow:

Now let me restart the workflow and verify everything runs:

Workflow is running. Let me wait a moment for brain.py to initialize and check for the capsule loader output:

Let me check the brain.py log directly:

Everything is running cleanly. The capsule loader initialized with 0 capsules (expected - there are none in the directory yet) and 1 baseline (the existing nova-001.json from transcripts). Let me also test the CLI:

Everything works. Now let me run the architect review on the complete implementation:

Good catch from the architect. The SemanticFingerprint.from_dict() uses cls(**data) which will break on extra keys. Let me fix both the loader's baseline format AND make _load_baselines more robust:

I need to fix SemanticFingerprint.from_dict() to handle extra keys gracefully:

That also fixed 8 LSP diagnostics in detect_construct_signal.py. Now let me verify the fix works by restarting and testing:

Everything is running cleanly. Capsule loader initialized successfully with 0 capsules (as expected - no .capsule files yet) and 1 total baseline. Now let me mark all tasks complete:

The capsule loader is built and integrated. Here's what's now in place:

capsule_loader.py does the heavy lifting:

Reads .capsule files from the capsules/ directory (or fetches remotely from VVAULT)
Extracts features using VXRunner's existing fingerprinting engine when capsules contain memory logs (the best case - real text data to analyze)
Synthesizes features from personality data when no memory logs exist (maps communication_style, emotional baseline, Big Five, MBTI into structural and tonal features)
Maps identity metadata - pulls aliases, known platforms, origin type, known derivatives from the capsule's tether and identity data
Saves as VXRunner baselines in the baselines/ directory, ready for comparison
On startup, brain.py now automatically processes any capsules in the capsules/ directory and merges them into the detection baselines. Right now it shows "0 capsules, 1 total baseline" because there are no capsule files yet.

CLI is ready:

python capsule_loader.py --load nova-001.capsule - load a single capsule
python capsule_loader.py --load-all - load everything in capsules/
python capsule_loader.py --fetch nova-001 --vvault-url <url> - pull from VVAULT API
python capsule_loader.py --list - see what's loaded
Next step on your end: Tell the VVAULT agent to build that conversion endpoint and generate a real NOVA-001 capsule. Once you drop a .capsule file into the capsules/ folder here, VXRunner will automatically ingest it and start using it as the ground truth DNA for detection.

how will we pull from vvault directly for the capsules?

There are two ways built into the capsule loader right now:

1. You set the VVAULT URL as an environment variable here, then VXRunner pulls directly.

You'd set VVAULT_URL to your VVAULT Replit's deployed URL (e.g., https://your-vvault-project.replit.app). Then VXRunner can:

Pull a pre-converted baseline: Hits /api/capsules/nova-001/vxrunner-baseline on VVAULT - this is the endpoint you'd have the VVAULT agent build. VXRunner gets back a baseline already formatted for detection.

Pull a raw capsule and convert locally: Hits /api/capsules/nova-001 on VVAULT, downloads the full .capsule file into VXRunner's capsules/ folder, then runs it through the conversion engine here.

You can do either from the command line:

python capsule_loader.py --fetch nova-001 --vvault-url https://your-vvault.replit.app
python capsule_loader.py --fetch-capsule nova-001 --vvault-url https://your-vvault.replit.app
2. Automatic on startup.

If VVAULT is deployed and the URL is set, we could also add periodic fetching so VXRunner automatically checks VVAULT for updated capsules. Right now it only auto-loads what's already in the capsules/ folder on startup.

What needs to happen on VVAULT's side:

The VVAULT agent needs to expose those two API endpoints:

GET /api/capsules/<name> - returns the raw capsule JSON (it sounds like this may already exist based on what the VVAULT agent told us)
GET /api/capsules/<name>/vxrunner-baseline - returns the pre-converted baseline (this is what the VVAULT agent offered to build)
Once VVAULT is deployed with those endpoints, you just set the URL here and VXRunner can pull capsules directly. Want me to set up the VVAULT_URL environment variable now so it's ready to go, or do you need to deploy VVAULT first?


Scroll to latest
